>> Gage: Good afternoon.
Welcome to Session 552 Understanding Manage Deployments.
So you've now officially entered
the home stretch for WWDC 07.
( Cheering )
( Applause )
So my name is Gage Beauchemin I'm the systems
engineer manager for enterprise at Apple sales.
And I've got Veronica Law, she's one of our engineers.
And we're going to be talking today about managed deployments.
And I know a lot of you would rather
maybe be grabbing a beer right now
or wonder maybe you should've made that decision.
So, why would you want to be here?
Why do you want to be listening to us talk to
you about managed deployments when you've had
so many sessions this week talking about
deploying software, packaging, all of those things.
So, what I hope to give you guys today is the, at the very
end, is to wrap it all up and give you the idea of how
to take all these tools and methodologies and roll them out
and see how some of our customers have actually used these
to manage the deployments in getting software
out, built, and supported in their organizations.
So, I've got a history from being an IT
administrator years ago so I'm obviously rusty.
But, what I've been doing for the last four years is
being part of Apple's professional services division
and helping deploy software and
helping companies understand how
to build mass deployments to meet
their organization's needs.
And so, these customers mostly are
fortune 1000 commercial customers.
And Veronica comes to us from NASA where she spent
about eight years doing integration of platforms
and deployments in heterogeneous environments.
So, if you stick around for the next hour the
things I'm going to try to go over with you is one,
defining what a managed deployment is because
before we talk about it we want to know what it is.
The second is process surrounding management deployment.
We want to discuss what goes into that and also give
you a case study of how someone's used these processes
to actually do a deployment and then, talk about some
sample scripts, give you those sample scripts to take home
and go over some tips and tricks to maybe take some
of the things that you seen throughout the week
and come up with some new ways to use them.
And then we'll do wrap up and Q and A.
So, simply placing computers on a desk
and installing some software doesn't count.
So, if we go to Wikipedia, the source for all definitions,
and look for managed deployment we get nothing.
( Laughter )
( Applause )
This one?
( Talking in background )
So I'm sure by the end of the hour you stole my line.
I am sure by the end of the hour
somebody's going to go upload that.
So, I'll give you some suggestions
for what a managed deployment is.
So, according to the "Gage-i-Pedia" managed deployment
is the process for building a system to install support
and maintain computers in an organization
to achieve specific goals.
And, this last part is important, specific goals.
So these are not what I'm dictating
you guys should be having.
Because, who's going to listen to me, right?
These are suggestions about what commonly
comes up in a lot of organizations
that I've talked to about what are some goals.
And goals are important because you
want to have goals so that as you're going
through this process it's easy to get sidetracked.
It's easy to get taken off course and go down a rabbit hole.
And, setting aside what the goals for your deployment are at
the beginning helps you check in from time to time and go.
How is what I'm doing right now
working to achieve those goals?
Or is it not?
So, some are enabling users to be more productive, duh.
Minimize the total cost of ownership.
Improve the user's experience.
Sometimes that really gets lost.
Reduce user downtime and reduce
support cost to the organization.
So, as we go through we're going to talk about how some of
the goals that were for one of our customers get defined.
But before we do that let's talk about
what else is there to advantage deployment.
Obviously we talked about building and deploying
a standard image everyone gets that part.
But, migrating user data, patching and updating
once machines are out there in the ecosystem.
Training support, and of course
asset tracking and inventory.
So you know what you still have.
So if you're going through this
process there's various stages.
And I define eight of them.
You guys can choose to do what you want with this.
But, my whole goal is before you start with this doing
something, you should actually plan what you're going to do.
Go out and gather user feedback.
Find out what the needs are.
Do a needs assessment of what you
need to be delivering to your users.
And then build something.
And the first thing you're going to build
is what I consider your best effort.
And no matter how much we know about our in
users or how much we think we know about our
in users typically our first best
effort isn't quite good enough.
And I know it's a knock to the ego but the
reality is, is that you need a pilot to go ahead
and learn about how your best effort either
does or doesn't meet the needs of your in users.
And so one of the important things is make
sure your pilot group is as diverse as possible
to represent the whole organization or at
least the whole organization that's going
to be using the deployment that you build.
So, once you've learned from that, use that to revise
your builds and maybe you want to go through this process
of piloting and revising a couple three four
times until you feel you've got it right.
And then you want to deploy.
So, deploying in my mind is just a bigger pilot.
Right, because you're going to find
out more about what's happening.
So again, go back to learning and
then go ahead and update your system.
And this is where once you've gone into the wild
and deployed you want a mechanism to make sure
that once you learn by doing that you can then
integrate it in and fix and build out wall machines
that have been deployed without
having to re-image the whole thing.
So, let's talk about a case study here.
I'm not going to use the company's name.
We're just going to say it's a large electronics manufacturer.
So, the first, these are the goals that this
company came up with for their deployment.
And the first thing they wanted to do is these
machines were going to buy these nice pretty maps
and we're going to put them through our inner organization.
And the concept that our guys sending
the checks are these are expensive.
Everyone thinks Macs are expensive.
But they wanted to look further into the system
because, I mean we can get into that debate.
But what they wanted to look at is what's the total
cost of the organization deploying, supporting,
and maintaining these machines
throughout the life of the machines?
How do we protect that cost?
So, they also wanted to take this new platform they were
building in and they wanted to use that as a platform
to revisit 15 years of experience deploying Windows
and maybe some of the assumptions and the rules
that have been built around how the
deploy machines and pull them out,
put them on the table, and really
see if this still made sense.
Because they didn't want to infuse a lot
of previous knowledge on a platform
that may or may not work with this new platform.
They also wanted to leverage a Windows-focused help desk.
They didn't want to have to get a whole new IT support group.
How many here have budget for more people?
No we're not, those dot com days are over, right.
We're in more of how to get more out of less.
So they want to do the same thing.
In fact, some companies actually, I find, are still looking
at outsourcing off shoring their IT support, their help desk.
So, they want a way that they can leverage non Mac gurus
to sit on the help desk and use their Mac gurus for building
and designing their infrastructure
and actually doing proactive work.
So, they also want to do this all
while minimizing user down time,
maximizing their up time, and minimizing the impact on IT.
And where possible, integrating into the
existing infrastructure they already have,
instead of having to build a whole
new parallel system just for the Macs.
So, I have, I keep wanting to look at the screen.
So the first thing they did is they wanted
to, the built out a zero touch deployment.
And the reason they looked at this is they,
if you look at companies who talk to them,
to quantify going out and physically touching a box.
Most companies can quantify that that it cost them
between 35 dollars and 50 dollars to touch a box.
Now that's not per hour.
That's just to physically go touch
it whether it's two minutes
or half an hour it cost them between 35 and 50 dollars.
So, if you need to touch a box to
deploy it just figure on adding 50 bucks
to the cost of that machine right off the bat.
And every time you need to touch it
therefore out, throughout the rest of the life
of that machine just keep racking that bill up.
This company previously was spending depending
between two and four hours to set up a box.
So, what they would do is they'd get the box from procurement,
they would vision and set up and image the box.
They'd go physically deliver it to the in user.
And then they'd the set the in user up, attach it to
the directory service, configure their mail client,
and do all this nice white glove service, real
good experience from the in user's standpoint.
From the IT standpoint it's a very costly endeavor.
And so, what they wanted to do is they wanted
to continue this white glove experience,
but they wanted to reduce the impact
on IT both in man hours and in cost.
So they leveraged NetBoot with ASR to do a complete hands
off image, zero touch imaging where they used extensive use
of preflight scripts to automate asset tracking and
other pieces of the process, post flight scripts to bind
at the directory once everything's done, log-in scripts
to configure the machines to the entourage setups
because they're using Entourage to exchange.
So, they wanted all this done automated.
And they wanted it customized for each user.
This way they don't have to visit the box.
All the while they wanted to minimize
total cost of ownership.
So, how did they minimize that total cost of ownership?
Some of the things they did were partitioning the
hard drive so that you have one hard drive partition
for all the system software and a
second partition for all the user data.
What this provided them was the ability to go ahead and
re-image a box without worrying about the user data.
They didn't have to back it up.
That takes time and it also potentially
puts the data at risk.
They didn't have to worry about archiving that data.
They can just re image a box.
So this actually really lowered the threshold for them of
when they could pull the trigger of re-imaging a machine.
a lot of companies will spend four, five, six hours
invested in a single box trying to trouble shoot the ghost
in the show in that box knowing full well that if
they just re imaged it, it wouldn't be a problem.
But there's such a fear that maybe if I re
image it I'm not going to catch everything.
Or, how do I put it back to where it was
that they just avoid the whole thing.
So we wanted to take that pain point away.
They're making extensive use of the packaging
format for deploying all of their software.
I'll repeat that, for deploying all of their
software they're using packaging format.
They're leveraging a push-pull model.
They, phone home and pull software down on a
regular basis but they also can take those packages
and push them out where it makes appropriate sense.
They do, not only hands off deployment, but
hands off support and maintenance of the boxes.
The only time IT physically touches a box is when the
box breaks, there's something hardware wrong with it
and then the in user brings it into the depot.
They really embrace this hands off
approach to deployment and support.
Also leveraging scripts as much as possible to automate as
many things as possible continue to involve on that policy.
And then also using policy base management out of a
central repository to make decisions about what goes
where for your customization of these boxes.
Okay, so let's talk about the components
they put in the machine or into the system.
So, we've got a NetBoot server.
We've got a file server.
We've got directory services and a MySQL Database.
So what they're really using is they're using
NetBoot and ASR to do the initial deployments.
They're using AFP file servers to host their
maser DMG image and al the package images.
They're using package format obviously
and directory service.
Now this customer, they're using active directory.
But you can us active directory, open directory
open LDAP, choose your favorite.
They're also using MySQL server with Java
running on a Java server, which is Tomcat.
And this system was basically a database for hosting some
logic in Java so they can actually intelligently build
out a system of triggers, policies and actions.
So, the trigger is when does the box phone
home to talk to the server and the Java engine.
Okay, they've got business logic embedded in
the Java engine that allows them to say okay
if this criteria's met perform this action.
And the resulting action can be go out and install
this package, run this script, remove something,
there's a range of things that can happen.
And that leads right into the fact
that a lot of this is predicated
on scripts, AppleScript, Perl, and Shell Scripts.
So, what does a user's experience
look like when they get a new machine?
IT hasn't touched it.
How does this box get built?
So, Veronica's here with me and she's
going to basically go through this with them.
The in user gets they get a machine.
And they get a quick start guide,
which is right up here on the screen.
And this quick start guide says you've got your new box,
congratulations, woo hoo, let's pull it out of the box.
And the first thing you want to do to get this onto
the corporate build system is plug in the power cord.
Remember it's Veronica not Vanna.
Next thing they're going to do is plug in the Ethernet.
So far we haven't lost the in users yet, right.
We've got pretty pictures.
Okay here comes the tricky part.
Take your finger and hold down the N key.
Okay, and press the power button.
Okay I think everybody in this room
knows where we're going with this.
Right? Okay we're netbooting.
So, the one thing we learned, remember relentless learning
about the user's experience, is that users were complaining
that their finger hurt from holding it down too long.
So, we had to add an extra step saying please remove
your finger from the N key when you see the globe.
( Laughter )
( Applause )
Sometimes it's not the technical stuff.
Actually most of the time it isn't.
So how does initial deployment look?
What's going to happen?
How 's the system going to build up?
We're going to walk you through each step.
This is the time that if you're bored go get a beer.
Alright, so the first thing we do is we go up to the
net server and we boot off a customize NetBoot image.
We're booting into us of an image sitting on the server.
And what it's going to do is it's going to run a preflight script.
That preflight script's going to go out and find
the first disc in the system, which is disc zero.
And it's going to look to see if we've touched that box before.
And the way it looks to see if we touched that box before
is if there's two partitions and one of them is named data.
Okay so, if it's not named that we haven't touched
the box, we're going to go ahead an partition it.
So it partitions it.
And the first partition is called Macintosh HD.
It's 20 gigs.
Second partition is the remaining data and it's called data.
And then we go ahead and build a sim link.
This actually happens a little later in the
process but we'll say it for user sake now.
We build a sim link from the base system,
which has the OS and everything on it.
And we want to go ahead and separate all the user
data to the second partition so /users
on the Macintosh HD is sim linked over
to /users on the second drive.
Okay so for those of you who are script junkies
where it is, we can walk through it real fast.
We're basically using diskutil
to go ahead and do that.
One thing that we did add that the customers
wanted was a warning for the in users that,
okay say you brought your home machine and
managed it somehow, figured out how to NetBoot.
And you're about to image your machine, warning
Robinson, you're about to loose all your data.
Most of the time, guess what happens?
>> Audience: They lost all their data.
>> Gage: Yes.
Okay the least IT wasn't on the hook at that point.
You said yes.
Okay, so then we use diskutil, we partition two
drives, HFS plus one for 20 gigs and one for 2000 gigs.
So far I haven't seen a laptop with 2000 gigs in it.
So what that's really doing is saying take all the
remaining space and make an HFS partition.
So this allows us to future proof the script
a little bit for different drive sizes.
These are all going to be uploaded to
the site so you can download them.
This is basically our sim link script.
And we thank Rick Lemman from professional
services who helped this customer.
These are all his scripts that he built.
And he was nice enough to share them with us.
So, the initial deployment continues on
where after we've got the drive imaged,
or sorry partitioned we want to take an ASR
master image blast it down on that first partition.
So, now we have our master sitting on this box.
This is not rocket science, in fact,
this whole process isn't rocket science.
The Windows guys have been doing stuff like this
for years, the Mac guys have been doing stuff
like this for years, managed deployments.
We're just taking in a unique set of
tools and doing it on the Mac platform.
I just said the Mac guys didn't I?
Okay, Lenix guys correction.
Okay so, after we ASR'd it the box has a post flight
script and that post flight script is going to go out
and it's going to find the Mac address of the first Ethernet
device in the box, which is En0, and it's going to go out
and find the second Mac address of
the second device which is En1.
And we're going to go ahead and use
those as unique identifiers.
And we're going to go out and throw those up and create
a computer count on the MySQL dataBase.
So we're creating a record.
And those are our index fields which is
the Mac address, it's unique to every box.
The next thing we want to do is a script that's
going to go out and do a inventory of this box.
So what's a good tool to do inventorying with?
System Profiler, so we do a system profiler report, export
it as XML, and I think this is running our of batteries,
and it sends it up to the server and
caches it in the data base, okay.
And it bears saying that when we created that
computer count record, there's a default template.
And that template already had predefines from triggers and
some policies for this box that we'll discuss in a minute.
So, we now have an inventory of
what's physically on this box.
Well, we could also cache in here pre-populate all
the software that we know that's in our master image.
Right? But what happens when we change
that master image down the road?
Are we going to want to go change that
default template every time?
Probably not.
So, rather than do that we're just going to go ahead
and inventory and troll through the hard drive
and find every application that dot, ends in .app
in the applications folder and we're going to go ahead
and send that up to the server as
well and cache in the data base.
After that, what else is left?
Receipts right?
So, we go ahead and take all seven locations where you can
have a receipt in the system and we throw that up there.
So now we've not only captured everything that
was installed with the package which we done,
but anything that wasn't installed with the package
so a third party installer as long as it ends
in .app extension, which are usually hidden.
Okay, and then here's the typical,
we'll go back into the typical process.
If after we built our master image, we're six weeks
down the road, seven weeks down the road and we find
out you know what, we wanted to add a couple of things or we
wanted to fix a couple things and we don't want to repackage
up our master image, we'll just throw some packages,
post action package installers and throw them down.
Okay, so now what we have is we have a
system that has basically been imaged.
It's got some customization done but
for the most part it's a generic box.
The last script retargets the internal drive
as you boot device, restarts it and we boot up.
And remember I said that default account had some
triggers in it the template, those trigger were,
next time the machine boots up, they'll phone home.
The other trigger had was first time
user logs into any account, phone home.
Now we can also have cron'd action triggers,
we can have log out triggers, there's
a variety of things we can do.
So, we have some pre-staged in the
box just from the initial get go.
And the first one phones home to MySQL DataBase
and says okay I'm phoning home.
What do I do?
And the data base says okay, you've got this
default thing lets bind you to active directory.
So, it sends down a startup item and tells
the box go bind yourself to active directory.
So what we'll do is we'll take, we already used the Ethernet
address to create a computer account in My SQL DataBase.
So why not use the same, be consistent, and create
an account to Active Directory with the same thing?
Well the only problem is Active
Directory really like combs in fact
for that matter MySQL doesn't
like combs in your fields either.
So, what we do is we go ahead and truncate that down
and pre-cursor it with Mac just so we know it's a Mac
in their system so that the paranoid
AD admins know how to find us.
And we go ahead and throw that in and we're
creating a computer count in the computer's OU.
So, if you guys want to see here's
a script that actually does that.
This started life as Mike Bombich's scripts and got heavily
modified again by Rick Lemman who's sitting right down here.
And he'll be available for Q&A
if you have any questions later.
But, basically what this is doing is
running out and finding doing an if config
to find your Mac address, doing a
little act truncate things down.
And then it's setting some variables and
then it ultimately does a dsconfigad.
Now the last thing you're seeing in
variable on here is a $password.
Anyone know what's wrong with that?
Some one scream out.
What?
>> Audience: It's in the command history.
>> Gage: Right it's in the command history.
What else?
>> Audience: (Inaudible)
>> Gage: Okay so you're potentially, the root of what
it's doing is you're opening up a security problem
because you're giving and admin
password in the active directory system.
So, how do we, we can't get rid of it.
How can we minimize the impact?
So, what we did was we went in and created an account
in Active Directory dialed down the ACL's so that all
that it had the right to do was to create and
account in the computer's LU and nothing else.
So if someone managed to get this
that's all they'd be able to do.
So, this script is getting pushed down at first boot to
systems that have only been imaged by our imaging process.
It's using a, you know, fairly innocuous computer account.
And then at the very end we destroy it with a secure remove.
It's not 100 percent foolproof but
at least it's better than nothing.
You gotta live with Windows you gotta live with Windows.
So, customizing the workstation.
We've shown you how this works in theory.
Let's actually show how it works in practice.
So, Veronica's going to go ahead and show
you under the hood of what goes on.
>> Veronica: Thank you Gage.
( Applause )
So, less than ten minute ago I show you NetBooting
this Macbook Pro, so during that time we've laid
down generic image, bound that system to directory domain.
Add in some of the startup scripts to talk to
MySQL server data base, and put in the login script.
So, besides all these scripts it's
basically a very generic build.
There's nothing specific software-
wise installed for any user.
So, it's nothing like  Xcode for a developer
or you know CS3 for a creative artist.
So how do we take a generic system to, from out of the box
kind of experience to totally a customized managed client?
So, to start let me show you the system at
a generic state using a local admin account
that we have put into the generic build.
One of the things I want to show you this, but
let's see, can you switch it over to the demo?
( Silence )
Yeah, I'll fix that in just a sec.
See I didn't put in the mirror mirroring so let's see.
Is it mirroring now.
( Silence )
( Talking in background )
( Laughter )
Thanks. I do, you know, give out sacrifice
to the demo God' so it's not working.
>> Gage: Do you want me to walk them through the
process and then on the screen while you do it?
>> Veronica: It should be right there.
>> Gage: I'm going to slide this do you want me to walk
them through the process while you get it set up?
>> Veronica: We got it, it should be.
( Silence )
Oh see, sorry, great.
Yea thank you.
( Applause )
Alright, next time I know better.
Do something for the demo god.
Mirror, one more step.
We'll get there
( Silence )
Alright, we're there, okay.
So, first thing you notice that the hard
disc has been divided into two partitions.
As Gage has point out in that partitioning script
we have one for the OS and one for the data.
Then next thing is it's basically for this admin we just
get a default blue desktop, although the dockets move
from the default location, which
is at the bottom to the left.
And if you take a look right now you have some of the
generic application like mail, iChat, Safari on there.
So one of the things I want to kind of show you is, at this
point the system has been bound to our directory service.
So if I were to execute the SCL, is it too small?
>> Gage: Bigger.
>> Veronica: Better?
Alright, and if I go to my directory
service I can see my list as a user, great.
So this system has been configured and
it's already bound to our directory server.
So, how do we take it from this system to something
that's customized with specific software for our user?
So, let me take you step by step from this point how, say,
for this example we have Joe who's a software developer.
And he's going to show us how from this point
on how he's going to get the system installed
with the necessary software he needs.
Can I switch back to the presentation slide?
( Silence )
Okay, so Joe is going to face with a
MacBook Pro with a log in screen.
So the first thing he does is, what are you going to do?
Put in a user name and password.
That information is sent and checked
against the directory domain.
And when it's authenticated a long in script it
then triggered to phone home to our MySQL DataBase
with the Ethernet address as well as his user name.
So, at this point the data base server now
has two pieces of information to work with.
What it's going to do is three things.
One; it's going to use this user name and then pole the open
directory server for further use or attributes such as his,
Joe's real name, his email address, maybe
perhaps what group membership he belongs to.
The next thing that MySQL is going to do is using
the Mac address it's going to check against the list
of inventory data base that has been keeping
up all the system and the management.
And find out, for example, Joe's system
is a MacBook Pro with two gigs of memory.
Perhaps a little, you know, free
space for software installation.
Third; with all the information about the user
and the system, it's going to then look at a list
of configuration policy that someone
has precreated or predefined.
These policies basically are just a list of action items.
These could be running a script.
They could be installing and uninstalling packages.
These policies are key to any user attributes.
So it could be key to Joe's group membership being in
the software engineer group he's going to get at Xcode.
And in other software perhaps is
Omnigraph he's going to be getting.
Once the MySQL server data base figures out
what policy this system and this user required
that information is sent back to the client and the client
is going to go mount the AFP server downloads the software,
the scripts, and proceeds to, you
know, install and run the scripts.
So, one of the things I want to point out is that,
Gage just mentioned earlier, with the type of script
that you can configure it can highly
customize it to any actions you want.
So it can be setting up their mail preferences so
a user doesn't have to figure out what, you know,
mail server or relay server they need, so, all that,
once they have logged in, everything will be configured.
So let me take this for a spin.
Oh by the way the script is basically
Applecript and at the end
of this session it's going to be up
on the server for you to download.
( Applause )
So, can I have it back on the display?
Thank you.
So, I'm Joe and I'm logging into the system.
>> Gage: Prior to this the system is
still generic like everything else.
>> Veronica: Alright, right away
you can see my desktop is different.
And if I look down on my application folder
pretty soon you notice this role bar changes
because Omnigraph was getting installed in the background.
And you can see that's just popped up.
And now let's take a look at the developer
folder where Xcode's going to be installed.
And as you see Interface Builder is being installed.
And as I speak you can see additional folders popping up.
There's Xcode.
( Applause )
So Joe is pretty psyched I mean being a
developer is like oh my God, my Xcode is there.
As you know Xcode can be pretty bulky.
So for this demo it's going to take a couple of minutes
to finish install before it runs the other scripts.
So I have a different system that
has all that, you know, pre built.
So I want to show you the end product, once baked.
Is it showing yet?
( Silence )
Okay, is it showing up?
Okay, sorry about that.
It doesn't, are we there?
Okay good.
Alright, great.
So this is Joe's environment.
As we see the desktop has, you
know, changed to the rock garden.
And if you take a look at, I want to take you to the dock.
The dock has Xcode and Omnigraph
or icon already added on there.
That's part of my policy design.
And let's take a look at Entourage because
that's the script at the end of that install.
It basically runs the setup script.
So, oops, no not that one, and
let's take a look at Entourage.
So, is it going to prompt me to set up my environment?
No that's just Graffle... close that.
And it takes a while but eventually it's going to come up.
( Silence )
That's still the Graffle.
Alright where is it?
There, it takes a while, okay.
If I check my account settings you
can see that's all a pre-setup.
So, for Joe that whole customization has
been done by just merely logging onto system,
so for a user all Joe know is take the
system out of the box, NetBoot it.
At the end of NetBoot a log in.
And wa la, I have all the stuff that I need for my job.
So, that is the customization that you can do.
( Applause )
>> Gage: Can we switch the slides back to the other screen?
( Silence )
So, there's a lot of tools.
And Apple's got a lot of tools well
there's some third party tools out there.
And a lot of people are looking for this
magic bullet that does everything for them.
And the reality is is that there is no magic bullet.
There's a lot of different tools out there and
there's a lot of overlap between those tools.
And a lot see that overlap like is
that, okay this does a little bit
of what this other thing does, and which one should I use?
And the answer's both.
If you've got options then you've got an option of well,
in this circumstance this one may work
better for my needs at this point and time.
And in another circumstance this one may work better.
So, I'd like to take a tool belt approach to this.
You don't see your carpenter using
just a hammer to build your house.
You wouldn't dream of it.
And so you wouldn't just expect one tool to do
everything for you when you're doing managed deployment.
So Veronica showed you how you can customize a
box, how the box gets customized after we build it
to give the user a unique experience of what
software goes on there, what's on their dock.
There's some overlap there with
some of the other tools out there.
So, managing preferences, you all know you
can control what goes into the user's dock
through managed preferences and edit directory service.
Which one works better?
Maybe both, maybe some things you want to manage
through policies and actions out of a data base
and some you want to manage through managed
preferences out of your directory service.
They're not mutually exclusive.
They're complimentary.
There's also Apple Remote Desktop.
We talked about doing that pull
model where stuff gets pulled down.
Well sometimes when you're doing help desk you don't want to
set up policy and wait for the user to log out and log back
in again before they can have this
new software pushed to them.
You just may want to grab of the AFP repository of all
your packages and go push and install a package to the user
because you're dealing with them right then and there.
So, ARD have some overlap with some
of the things we've already discussed.
There's also some reporting tools in there.
Maybe the reporting you have a policy for everybody
out there doesn't quite cover something you want.
And ARD can do it faster and more nimbler or
whatever doesn't mean they're mutually exclusive.
So, there's also a range of third party tools
out there that try to solve that last piece
that Apple doesn't have something right off the GUI button
to do, which is how do you install third party applications
after a box is already out there because
we all know the software update's
out there but it only handles Apple updates.
Right? So how do we get those pieces down?
How do we asset manage?
How do we inventory these boxes?
So there are a range of solutions, there's LanDesk,
Radmind, LanREV, there's FileWave, there's Casper,
and there's Alteris, and there's probably a few
more that I haven't mentioned and if you're in the room
and I didn't mention your product I apologize sincerely.
So, all these take a slightly different
tack on solving very similar problems.
So, for the customer we've been referencing we've had
slides that said MySQL, it said Java, it said Tomcat.
The reality is is that the customer's looking at doing this.
And in fact, my own team was looking at doing this.
And we went down Rick and I were actually at
one point trying to design all this ourselves.
And we had to make a pragmatic choice.
And the customer did the same thing in
saying do I want to spend all my time doing,
building infrastructure with MySQL and building Java.
Or, do I want to buy something off the
shelf that's already gone through all that
and just focus my time on solving my business needs.
So, what they ended up doing was they decided on
one of these previous slide one of these solutions
and the one these guys managed to
choose and I'm not endorsing anybody.
I'm just saying the one these guys chose was Casper.
And, Casper is basically a tool that's just leveraging MySQL
it's levering packages and NetBoot, ASR, AppleScript,
they're doing Java, it basically runs on
the MySQL server that's built in,
the Java server that's on there, which is Tomcat.
It automatically sets up at share point so it's
plumbing, just using the plumbing under the hood.
Any of you guys given the right skill set and the
will to do it can set these kinds of things up.
You don't need to buy a solution.
But where do you want to spend your time?
So, this customer chose to go ahead
and purchase Casper and we've been kind
of referencing all this stuff that happens magically.
So Veronica's going to show you how to set up the policies
on the admin side to make all of this a reality.
>> Veronica: Thank you Gage.
So we talked about using Casper to
basically address your business needs.
One of the things that we did just
in the last demo was to show you how
to configure a system from the
generic to a customize system.
So, other things that basically we can address our
installing and uninstalling third party software.
This could be for an admin C, oh my God CS3 is out.
I have to go up there and do an inventory
of what's up there and figure out okay,
what other system out there are using CS2?
And do I have enough disk space, so, basically all
those are different steps that an admin would have to do
in preparation work before you can address these specific needs.
Other things are, you know what?
Give me a sec.
do you have the, thank you.
What we have is policy enforcement.
When I was working at NASA was I was being asked by
the security officer basically well can you set
up a screen log that enables it every 15 minutes and make
sure that it's, you can't break it without a password.
So, as you know, you can reset that
at the system configuration panel.
So a user can usually reset that.
So how do you do a persistent policy enforcement?
Other business needs are, for example,
inventory and asset management.
I find that actually to be a very
important piece to desktop management
because not only for hardware refresh but also planning.
One of the things is, as I'm about to show
you with Casper, is without having an accurate
and also an updated inventory it's really
hard to create a policy and push out some
of these configurations and enforcements.
So, just take a quick step back.
What is Casper?
As Gage has kind of let you know it basically
leveraged all the existing Apple technology as well
as open source technology that's
found in our operating system.
What I found, one of the things that very helpful is, what
they did is wrap all that up, put in the glues to each
of these technologies, and allow you to have a very easy
configuration console that you can access through the gooey.
So one thing I kind of thought is one of my
colleagues has said is what about an iPhone?
So, maybe in the future you can do some
of this configuration using the iPhone.
So, before I do, let me log onto
the Casper server and show you how
to create a policy to remove and install the software.
( Silence )
This thing is not having.
I did, let's see, nope.
Okay there we go.
>> Gage: Can we get demo slides please?
( Silence )
>> Veronica: B. Start on B. Can you switch it over to demo?
( Talking in background )
( Silence )
There we go.
Okay.
( Applause )
Thank you.
I don't know, okay.
Let's try this again.
let me go over to log onto Casper.
And it'll prompt me for user name and password.
Now that I'm on there my objective is to create a policy
that's key to any systems that have an older version
of a software, remove that and then install the new one.
So, the first thing we'll do is go over to the
management panel and we'll create a smart computer groups.
So let's click on the smart computer group.
For this demo I'm going to be removing an in house Apple Quote
Tool that we use for this enterprise sales group.
So, I'll call this group that's there, there's there.
And I want to tag that to the type of software.
So, you can do that by application
title so I'll click on that.
And now, application title, I can choose to
have a certain phrase or string within that.
So, I'll type, there we go, that's Apple Quote
Tool, version 1.2.7 so save that group.
Next thing I do is to go over at the
policy and create this new policy
to remove the older version with the newer version.
So, I call that AQT and you can choose
how to trigger by any startup log in.
So, for this purpose I'll just go for log in.
And you can actually set the things up by
active when it's active when it's expired.
The next thing is how often do I want to run this?
So, let's just go for ongoing.
And, I'll tap up at the scope to
basically set up who gets this policy.
I want to add a computer group so I add a computer
group and I'll show it up as Apple quote tool.
That's the one that I just created.
Next, I want to basically define the action items which
that is whatever package that I wanted to install.
So, I'll tap it over to packages at package.
And here are the list of packages that
I've already pre-created using Composer.
That's a toolset within Casper Suites.
So in this case I'll go over to Apple Quote
Tool version 1.2.7 and go uninstall.
And with the newer version I've created an install.
And now I'll just save the policy.
So, let's just review to make sure
I've got everything right.
I have active policy that's going to be run on log in.
and if I go to the scope it's going to basically
install on any system that has 1.2.7 group.
And action item is uninstall the old one
and install the new Apple Quote Tool.
So that was it and let's see this in action.
Let's see if I can now get over to the other screen.
( Silence )
Do I have the same?
So, any news, we've been having a lot of problem with this.
Okay, D. And you get to the display,
see if I can detect display again.
Okay it's mirrored.
So, okay one more try.
Alright, so I've logged in as admin on the system
and if I take a look at the application folder.
At this point I should just have,
let's see where's my Quote Tool, 1.3.1.
It had 1.2.7 before.
So if you want to take a look at the library
receipt folder to see, okay when was it installed?
You can see it was just now Apple Quote Tool 1.3.1 and
that was just a minute ago that that just got installed.
So, that's how easy it is to create a policy
for you to uninstall and install the package.
One of the other business needs that we thought was very
cool with this tool is I don't know how many out there
as a system admin, you'll find applications that are
not really necessarily business related that just,
you know keep happening on being
installed on the users desktop.
You can advice them not to install it.
But some how they just end up being there.
So, instead of chasing down these applications, you know
like, Internet games or programs doing sniffing on network,
it would be cool to have a way to set
up, basically blacklisting some softwares.
So what I've done is on the server
is to create a blacklist software.
So, now I installed using a thumb drive.
Say, I'm going to pick on LimeWire here Limewire here.
so I'm going to go ahead and put in thumb drive.
And where's my LimeWire?
There it is.
Let me open it up, install that,
let me just install as an admin.
Immediately I get my message.
( Cheering )
( Applause )
And so, as you can see this is an often tool for you to
streamline and basically do your admin job without running
around and creating all these different customized scripts.
But again, if you are inclined of
doing that, all this tool underneath,
Casper is basically Apple technology in open stores.
So, with some elbow grease and midnight
oil I'm sure that can make it happen.
So with that, thank you Gage.
( Applause )
>> Gage: Can you switch back to slides please?
So now we have a system where you can build data
based machine based on a common standard image
and based on users logging in and who they
are, what groups they are, what computer
or physical inventory of the hardware
that they're sitting at.
You can customize that experience in
that box to whatever their needs are.
We talked about the deployment and we
said physically getting the software
out there and deployed is not the whole bag.
One of the other parts is support.
And remember we call that, this customer said that
they wanted to leverage Windows centric help desk guys
who didn't have any particular knowledge
ahead of time of what the Mac platform was.
And they were faced with two choices.
Take their Mac gurus who are designing their infrastructure
and put them on the help desk and make them run
around fighting fires and putting out
fires and be in a very reactive mode.
Or they could give their Windows help desk users
some training, not expect them to be gurus.
But, build some way for them to go ahead and troubleshoot
and triage machines effectively so that the majority
of the problems that users face can get solved and the few
things that are systemic to the whole system can get bumbled
up to the map guru so they can solve it,
fix it once and solve it for everybody.
So, I have this approach, this concept
I call it my value meal system.
And the value meal system is basically
you go into a fast food restaurant
and you want the easy pick out what you want, right?
So we have a value meal system
for supporting at this customer.
And value meal A is, and this is not rocket science
people, everybody knows to trouble shoot, a user calls up
and says something's wrong with this application.
It's not running right.
It's doing something funky.
What's the first thing you do?
Sorry? Fire the user?
Okay. No.
( Laughs )
Okay. So the first thing you do is
you isolate it as it's a user issue.
Is this isolated to this user?
So long in as a different user.
Did the problem follow them or not?
If it did, we all know what to do.
You can train the help desk guy with some simple training.
How to throw away prefs and figure out the user problem.
If it did follow the user to another
user, it's not the user.
So what's the next thing you look at?
It's the applications.
Value meal B. so go and blast down an application.
You've got everything in package format.
You've got A or D. Blast it down.
Did the problem get fixed, yes or no?
No? Here's the part where it gets tricky for most people.
Is this problem just on this system, or is it everybody?
So spend a little time fixing the problem.
Here's the prob, the rut for most places that remember
I mentioned earlier that they're willing to spend four
or five hours finding that ghost in the shell on that
system, because the pain point for the perceived pain
of a reimaging a box is so high that they'll keep digging
further and further into trouble shooting that box.
You really shouldn't be spending more than about 15
to 20 minutes troubleshooting a problem on a box.
If it's not something, if it's just limited to this
box and it's not going to be done, wipe the desktop clean.
With Apple Remote Desktop, you can go in and you
can say you know what?
Retarget the boot drive as this NetBoot drive, reboot now.
What happens is the box goes out, sees the script,
sees it's already been touched, it doesn't repartition,
it just reimages that first Macintosh
HD, puts it back to zero.
You know you've got a fresh system.
I lost all that configuration I did before.
No you didn't.
it's still got the triggers.
It's going to log in.
it's going to phone home the next time the box starts up.
It's going to rebind itself back to the directory.
It's going to see the user count's already
there, so it's going to use the existing one.
It's going to have the first user login.
It's going to go look at who the user is, what groups they
belong to, pile on all the policies and do the actions,
install the software and you're back to good again.
You don't have to remember what you did to that box.
You don't have to remember how it's
different from this box and the other box.
It's all built into a centralized managed system.
So here's the real power, because now you have a real
simple process for your help desk guys to troubleshoot
and fix a lot of things with some very
simple training and if it isn't fixed there,
it must be seismic to the whole system, escalate the
ticket to the guys who know how to build the system.
They can spend four or five hours
troubleshooting and fixing the problem.
They fix it once, they build a policy, it's fixed
for everybody, maybe before most users realize it.
All right.
So now we need to decide what goes
into our base and our delta.
Now the base is that first image
that gets pushed out with ASR.
Why do you want to put stuff into that base image?
Well, ASR is real fast.
You're doing block mode copies.
There's no CRC checking back and forth.
It's the fastest way to get it out there.
So, you know, I'm a child of the 70s.
they used to have this commercial for Prego.
You don't remember it?
What's the tag line?
It's in there.
Yeah. Thank you.
So my approach to the base OS is
treat it like a Prego bottle.
Put it all in there.
If you have the right, the legal right to install it, it
doesn't matter whether users are going to use it or not,
if you have the legal right to
install it, put it in the base,
get it delivered out there in the fastest mode possible.
All the rest of the apps, you don't have a right
to install, go ahead and put it in your deltas.
Let your policies push it out and do it policy based.
Now I just got pointed out five minutes before
here, why wouldn't you put Firefox in your base?
Right? Okay.
So, I have no excuse.
Even I make mistakes.
( Laughs )
A lot of them.
All right.
So this makes it, the big question here is on here,
we have a couple of applications that
aren't in package format already.
They're InDesign, Photoshop, you guys
know they use their own installer, right?
( Laughter and applause )
>> Gage: You don't need to go that far.
We can do it ourselves.
In fact there's a lot of things that you
just want to roll up as a package yourself
but it just may not be commercial software.
It may be packaging up the hack you did to the
login window to put your company policy in it.
All right?
So let's start with this.
PackageMaker.
Everyone knows PackageMaker, right?
Okay. If you don't, you've been asleep this week.
So PackageMaker in Tiger got a relative upgrade to the GUI.
It's core market that it's focused at is developers.
There are times to get the full power of it, you want to
drop in and edit an XML file to get something done,
but the GUI's been greatly enhanced and that's very nice.
I like PackageMaker, but there's one thing missing.
If you've got an application like Adobe Photoshop, or
any other commercial application that's not already
in package format, how do you go ahead
and know what to drop into PackageMaker?
Well, there's a tool called loggen ,
it's part of the Radmine Suite.
( Applause )
Thank you, University of Michigan.
Part of the whole Rad Mine Suite.
And this goes back to my philosophy you don't
have to take the whole bath tub of water,
you can take out the pieces that makes sense for you, right?
So loggenis a tool, and it's a command line
tool, and what it does is it indexes your system.
So you run the command line, you tell it to create an
index, and this example it's called the orig.dat,
and after it's done, you go install
whatever app you want to.
I'd caution you not to go around surfing the web and all
that kind of stuff, because you're going to create a lot
of temp files that you later on have to ignore.
But just install your app.
Once you're done installing that app, you want to capture,
run loggen again, tell it to create a new index file,
compare it against the old and the result will be a text
file that says here's all the stuff that's installed
with a path to each one of them, and
here's all the stuff that was modified.
So this is your shopping list.
Go drag it all in and you're ready.
Okay, you now can build packages.
As an example, I think Macromedia DreamWeaver was
like 13,000 files, but I only actually had to drag
about 30 different things in there, because
it'll count every file you have down a path.
You just have to grab the root of the path.
Okay. So what are the tools that
are there for building packages?
Say you don't want to use PackageMaker,
there's a nice tool out there called IceBerg.
Anyone heard of it?
Yeah. So IceBerg doesn't have at it's disposal
all the features that PackageMaker has,
but ultimately what it's doing is it's
really using PackageMaker under the hood
with just a different skinned interface to it.
So it gives you, for me, it gives me maybe 70 - 80 percent
of all the features I normally use on a regular basis.
So this is my quick and dirty, fast get it done tool.
And again, here's what it looks like.
It's pretty easy to use.
And it just exposes most of the options in there so
you can embed preflight scripts, preinstall scripts,
pre-upgrade scripts, post flight post install, post upgrade,
all those kinds of things differentiate
as you conversion your stuff, all that.
So again, you need a shopping list.
So go get loggen and run it and now
you have your shopping list to build it.
And if you really want to go the easy route, and you'll
notice we're going harder to easier, more features to less.
Okay. So if you want to go really easy, there's a
commercial application out there called Composer.
And I like Composer.
And the reason I like Composer is it's simple.
I can go to a company and I can teach them
how to use this in a couple of minutes
and they can go start working on
building all their packages.
And it's an easy, low risk thing to do.
The other cool part is they do some unique stuff like
you build a package, you now have an uninstaller package.
If you take the whole suite from the
JAMF guys, the Casper Suite,
it'll upload it to your AP servers for you.
But you don't need to buy the whole
Casper Suite to take advantage of this.
This is a 50 dollar app.
If you buy Apple Remote Desktop, they will
sell you this, Composer, for 50 dollars.
And so that's a real nice one - two punch.
Package up all your applications and push them out with ARD.
Say you don't want to take the whole managed deployment
route, you just want to take what makes sense for you
guys, right? And the nice part is it does all the indexing for you.
Okay. So we've got a way to build packages nice and easy.
We've got a way to build our base.
We know what goes in the base.
We know what goes in Deltas.
But it took us six weeks, three weeks
if you're good, it took you an investment
of time to build your first master image, right?
And get it all dialed in with all
the tweaks you wanted to do.
The only really unique thing when you
want to update that is your OS, right?
All the rest of your things pretty much stay the same.
So if we're going from like 10.4.8 to 10.4.9, and you
want to update your image, do you want to go through all
of those things and remember and
most of us just keep a detailed list
of everything we did and we have to recreate all of that.
So we know how to make packages,
why do we have to do that again?
What we really should be doing is
once you've installed your base OS,
anything that goes on over that, say
your VPN client, make it a package.
Your hack to the login window to change
the welcome screen, make it a package.
Office, make it a package.
Virus, make it a package.
Whatever you're doing on top of that base OS,
package it up so the next time you want to build a
new base image, it's not going to take you three weeks.
You install a fresh OS, you add all those packages
on top of it in an afternoon, you have a new system,
go ahead and suck it up with ASR
and make a master image out of it.
Okay? So that begs the question
when do you update your packages?
Everyone has their own theory, right?
Stand on your right foot, rub your tummy, pat your head.
Okay. So basic philosophy here is
that get your clicker to work first.
If we've got a system based on 10.4.8 and we come
out with some new hardware, say a new laptop,
I'm not predicting hardware, we don't talk about unannounced
products, we come out with a new piece of hardware.
That hardware is not necessarily going to have a
whole new OS rap, it's going to have 10.4.8 plus.
What's the plus?
Kernel extensions, hardware drivers, that kind of stuff.
Apple, when we're focusing on getting a new product out, we
don't necessarily go down the right of regression testing
that build against every other piece of hardware
that's supported by the last dot release.
So we're not going to go through all
the engineering of making sure.
We don't always do that to make sure
every single box out there runs.
Now can you install it?
Sure. Will it work?
Most of the time.
You guys ever seen those G5 fans
just run and run and run and run?
Yeah. Okay.
So what's a good, safe practice?
And I've heard some people say wait for a retail box.
How often do we come out with a retail box?
Okay. So, correct me if I'm wrong, but what I have been told
is the right thing to do is wait for the next dot release.
What we'll do is take all of the changes and kernel
extensions and everything else that have been done,
roll it up into that dot release, and then
they do go through an aggression test back.
Okay? So, okay.
Everyone's got their own idea, right?
Okay. So we're updating, we're building this new system.
We're adding all of our packages on to it.
But there's still this thing like
do I put this on out in the wild
across a whole wide ecosystem of
machines without testing it, right?
So you always want to pilot it.
But let's talk about how you prevent putting a pilot out
and wearing your pilot users thin, is automated testing.
And there's a really cool application
out there for OS X called Eggplant.
Anyone heard of it?
Okay. Cool.
So if you do this build, you rev it,
you put all of your packages on it,
you're building all of these packages
individually anyway, Eggplant's a really cool tool
where you can build a test script for every single one
of your packages, your applications as you build it.
So you know if this worked before you can run it
through a script and test to see if it still works.
So you can build up a while suite of these scripts
for every application you make a package out of
and then you can just say okay, I've made a new
build list, just run through the script to know
that what worked before, does it still work?
If anything's wrong, it'll tell you.
So how does that actually work?
Well at it's heart, it's a VNC server.
So what Eggplant's doing is we already
have a VNC client built into our machine.
Or do I have that backwards?
Anyone know?
I always get it backwards.
Anyways, one of them is the server, one's the client.
So VNC, you're not installing anything new onto the OS X
build you did, so you're not corrupting the system,
all you're doing is you're turning on access to
the VNC clients so the Eggplant server can go in,
tap in the box, and you can build a script.
You can say listen, I'm doing this.
It watches the visual VNC session and
does image recognition and says okay,
when I did this, the expected result was this.
And it actually will record all of this for you and you
can build in inputs to it, but it's a pretty easy way
to build scripts and they have a
powerful scripting language behind it.
Well what that allows you to do is go ahead and build
a test, automated test script for every application,
and then at the end just fire them off and run against it.
If it hits a problem where it veers off the track
that it doesn't know about, it does a screen capture,
rolls it up into an email and sends it to you.
Cool. So let's recap.
We're running into the Q and A time right now.
So just to repeat, this is nothing new.
People have been doing this on Windows and Linux for years.
We now have a great suite of tools that we can employ
in very creative ways to build out a system that's very,
very cost effective to manage, maintain
and support machines in a wide environment.
You don't have to do all or nothing.
You can take the pieces and parts
that make sense for your organization
that meet the goals that you need and use those pieces.
I want to reiterate I've done before,
but learn about your users.
Learn, learn, learn and employ that learning.
And then lastly, protect your experience
as an administrator.
Be proactive.
Don't be reactive and run around fighting fires.
Okay. So we're going to have, there's some
more resources if you want to know more any
of these things I've mentioned
are, you can got to our slides.